[MWM](README.md) > Motion Control and .gif Freezeframes

# Motion Control and .gif Freezeframes

For accessibility compliance, we must allow the end user the control to pause animated gifs and other moving objects as needed. To do this, we have a motion control element on the page template, which serves as a hub for playback control.

Additionally, since gifs are used in a number of ways, we have a separate, global register of all gifs on the page, and their assigned freezeframes, generated by [freezeframe.js](https://github.com/ctrl-freaks/freezeframe.js).

These features have been created with extensibility in mind, by dispatching custom events and setting globally accessible data.

---

## Freezeframes

**See: [/js/mwmFreezeframes.js](/js/mwmFreezeframes.js)**

All gifs on the page will be converted to freezeframes on page load. The motion control bar determines whether that freezeframe will play or pause, depending on user preference.

If a module needs to take control of the freezeframe for any reason, you can do so with the following snippet.

```js
console.log( window.mwmFreezeframes.freezeframes );
// Contains all freezeframes generated for this page

window.mwmFreezeframes.getAllGifs();
// Get all gifs on the page

gif.addEventListener( 'ff-ready', callback );
// Listen for freezeframe.js to finish setting up your gif
```

Putting it all together, you could listen to each gif and then force the gif to pause once freezeframe is ready.

```js
window.mwmFreezeframes.getAllGifs().forEach( ( gif ) => {
    gif.addEventListener( 'ff-ready', ( event ) => {
        event.detail.freezeframe.stop();
    } );
});
```

---

## Motion Control

**See: [/Includes/Partials/MwmMotionControl/script.js](/Includes/Partials/MwmMotionControl/script.js)**

Similar to our freezeframes event, you can also listen for the user's play/pause preference by using the following snippet.

```js
document.addEventListener( 'motioncontrol', function( event ) {
    // use `event.detail.reduceMotion` to determine MotionControl state
} );
```

This event is always dispatched from `document` itself.

You also have the option of checking the current play/pause state in a couple ways.

### Option 1: Use the Javascript global

`window.indeedReduceMotion` is available for an easy status check.

### Option 2: Check the motion-control element

We are using a custom element to build the Motion Control bar. This can hold properties and state on its own, which can be observed from anywhere on the page. The following snippet retrieves the current play/pause state.

```js
let isPaused = document.querySelector( 'motion-control' ).paused;
```
